Add article and images (#218)
rootstrap/blog: content/How to change the rest-auth reset password email to a custom html template - Jorge Michelena.md

```html
<html>
  <head>
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width" />
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
    <title>Confirm reset password email</title>
  </head>
  <body style="text-align: center;">
    
    <h2>Hello!</h2>
    <br>
    <p><b>You're receiving this email because you requested a password reset for your user account at {{ site_name }}.</b></p>
    <br>
    <p> Please go to the following page and choose a new password: </p>
    <p> {{ protocol }}://{{ domain }}{% url 'password_reset_confirm' uidb64=uid token=token %} </p>
    <p> Your username, in case you’ve forgotten: {{ user.get_username }} </p>
    <br>
    <p><i> Thanks for using our site! The {{ site_name }} team.</i></p>
  </body>

</html>

```

As you may have noticed, the content is pretty much the same as in the default email, and for the sake of simplicity I didn't add a lot of style, just some bold and italic text as well as greeting in a bigger font size.
The relevant variables like `site_name`, `domain` and such will be automatically assigned values passed on the context to the template.

### Changing the default email

> Now that we have our template what we need to do is indicate that this is what we want to send our users when they request to reset
> their password, to do that we have to define a serializer that inherits from `rest-auth`'s `PasswordResetSerializer` and overwrite
> its `get_email_options` method and then use that serializer instead of the default one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we have our template what we need to do is indicate that this is what we want to send to our users when they request a password reset. To do that we have to define a serializer that inherits from `dj-rest-auth`'s `PasswordResetSerializer` and overwrite
its `get_email_options` method and then use that serializer instead of the default one.
```

So first we will define the new serializer:

```python

>  from dj_rest_auth.serializers import PasswordResetSerializer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from dj_rest_auth.serializers import PasswordResetSerializer
```

class CustomPasswordResetSerializer(PasswordResetSerializer):
    def get_email_options(self):
        return {
            'html_email_template_name': 'registration/custom_reset_confirm.html',
        }

```

And then in our `settings.py` we will indicate that this is the serializer we want to use:

```python

...

REST_AUTH_SERIALIZERS = {
    'PASSWORD_RESET_SERIALIZER': 'api.serializers.CustomPasswordResetSerializer',
}

...

```

Now if you send a reset password request you should receive something like this:

![image](images/old_screenshot.png)

In my case because I'm running this project locally it uses `localhost:8000` for the `site_name`.

> Now, let's say that you want to add something else to this email, some information that is bound to change and so
> you wouldn't want to hardcode on the template itself, for example let's say I want to add a link to social media, in that case
> I can add the key `extra_email_context` to the dictionary that `get_email_options` returns and as its value a dictionary with the extra
> context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, let's say that you want to add something else to this email, some information that is bound to change and 
you wouldn't be able to hardcode it on the template itself. Let's say I want to add a link to social media, in that case
I can add the key `extra_email_context` to the dictionary that `get_email_options` returns and as its value a dictionary with the extra
context.
```

For example, let's replace `The {{ site_name }} team` at the end with a fake url:

```html
...

    <br>
    <p><i> Thanks for using our site! Follow us on: {{ social_media_url }}.</i></p>
  </body>

...
```

And now define the value of `social_media_url` in the serializer.

```python
class CustomPasswordResetSerializer(PasswordResetSerializer):
    def get_email_options(self):
        return {
            'html_email_template_name': 'registration/custom_reset_confirm.html',
            'extra_email_context': {
                'social_media_url': 'https://link-to-social-media.com',
            },
        }

```

![image](images/new_screenshot.png)

It is also possible to overwrite default values like `site_name` in the same way by using `extra_email_context`, but it is not recommended to do so.

And that's all!

### Conclusion

> In this blog post you learned how to change the default rest-auth reset password email with a new html one by defining a custom `PasswordResetSerializer`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this blog post you learned how to change the default dj-rest-auth reset password email with a new HTML one by defining a custom `PasswordResetSerializer`,
```

> We have talked in previous blog posts about Django REST framework and about dj-rest-auth, both amazing libraries for Django that allow us to easily create rest APIs and handle user authentication respectively. In this blog, we will focus particularly on rest-auth and in one of its built-in functionalities which is the reset password feature.

Reviewer: I would add here the link to the blog

    background-color:#82AA00;
  }

  #footer .right {
    float:right;
  }

  .button {
    background-color:#82AA00;
    border-radius: 5px ;
    border: none;
    color: #fff;
    padding: 15px 32px;
    text-align: center;
    text-decoration: none;
    display: inline-block;
    font-size: 16px;
    margin: 4px 2px;
    cursor: pointer;
    }

  a:hover {
    color:#fff;
  }

</style>
</head>
<body>
<div id="content">
  <div id="header">
    <h1 style=>Hello!</h1>
    <h3><b> You're receiving this email because you requested a password reset for your user account at {{ site_name }}.</b></h3>
    <br>
  </div>
  <div id="pitch">
    <p> Please go to the following page and choose a new password: </p>
    <br>
    <br>
    <a href="{{ protocol }}://{{ domain }}{% url 'password_reset_confirm' uidb64=uid token=token %}" class="button">Reset your password</a>
    <br>
    <br>
    <br>
    <br>
    <p> Your username, in case you’ve forgotten: {{ user.get_username }} </p>
    <br>
  </div>
  <div id="footer">
    <p class="right"><i>Thanks for using our site! The {{ site_name }} team.</i></p>
  </div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
```

And this is how it looks:

> ![image](images/pretty_screenshot.png)

Reviewer: wooow 🚀

### Conclusion

> In this blog post you learned how to change the default dj-rest-auth reset password email with a new HTML one by defining a custom `PasswordResetSerializer`,

Reviewer: It would be nice if you say that you can overwrite any email template not just the one from Password Reset. WDYT?

```html
<html>
  <head>
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width" />
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
    <title>Confirm reset password email</title>
  </head>
  <body style="text-align: center;">
    
    <h2>Hello!</h2>
    <br>
    <p><b>You're receiving this email because you requested a password reset for your user account at {{ site_name }}.</b></p>
    <br>
    <p> Please go to the following page and choose a new password: </p>
    <p> {{ protocol }}://{{ domain }}{% url 'password_reset_confirm' uidb64=uid token=token %} </p>
    <p> Your username, in case you’ve forgotten: {{ user.get_username }} </p>
    <br>
    <p><i> Thanks for using our site! The {{ site_name }} team.</i></p>
  </body>

</html>

```

As you may have noticed, the content is pretty much the same as in the default email, and for the sake of simplicity I didn't add a lot of style, just some bold and italic text as well as greeting in a bigger font size.
The relevant variables like `site_name`, `domain` and such will be automatically assigned values passed on the context to the template.

### Changing the default email

> Now that we have our template what we need to do is indicate that this is what we want to send to our users when they request a password reset. To do that we have to define a serializer that inherits from `dj-rest-auth`'s `PasswordResetSerializer` and overwrite

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we have our template what we need to do is to indicate that this is what we want to send to our users when they request a password reset. To do that we have to define a serializer that inherits from `dj-rest-auth`'s `PasswordResetSerializer` and overwrite
```
